# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


In its current state, your application unfortunately feels kind of empty. There are some feature, but most lack integration with a cloud service and therefore cannot offer persistence of the data. Your usage of the phone sensors feels a bit light in the current state. Even though it serves the core feature of the app, simply taking a picture and storing it in a field shown to users is too simple and not enough. Having user story 17 would help in that sense.
Your application looks really nice; with current features but implemented to their full extent, it would be a very good app!
You sometimes decide to take on tasks at the expense of essential features, for instance, the "forgot password" screen, when you could have spent that time on integrating firebase to the features of your app.


For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


In your Figma, although the wireframe is complete and well ahead of the current state of the app, the mockup is not up to date, as we could not find the screen with the comment section.
The architecture diagram is here but it does not seem to be in sync with the app.


For this part, you received 3.3 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


You don't seem to be following any architectural pattern. Your screens should not contain any logic beside UI logic, i.e., screens should be provided with necessary data as props and should only handle how to display that data. In React, we often have the separation between container components and display components. Navigating through your code base felt unintuitive with some files in the `app` folders and others in forlders at the same level but felt like they should be included in the `app` folder.
There are too many hard-coded values in your code, e.g., the routes used by the router, these should be stored in some file containing all routes. Are you sure that you need to have `yarn` in the list of your dependencies? 

Your code seriously lacks tests and documentation (JSDoc). A certain level of test coverage is required, as outlined in the M2 deliverables, and you unfortunately do not meet this criterion.

Here is a list of issues we noticed while testing your APK:
- Posting a comment and then liking the post updates the time of the comment
- No state persistence, neither in a database, nor in between screen transitions, for example, if you like a post from the feed screen, then expand the post, it is not liked anymore, same happens if you like or comment the post and then go back to the feed screen.
- You can "send" empty comments
- When writing a comment (non-empty), you need to click twice on the send button to "send" it
- Location button, map button, profile button, achievements button are not clickable
- Nothing happens when taking a picture
- Feed is only composed of hardcoded content


For this part, you received 8 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Your sprint backlog was not up to date for sprint 6 (actually it was empty). Some issues don't have a description, you should have accpetance criteria defined for all issues (in the description), also you should set the epic the issue is part of.
Your product backlog has to be refined, you should mark the user stories you have completed.


For this part, you received 2.2 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


Your SCRUM documents are consistently filled on time and contain relevant information.
Our meetings contribute to sprint planning and improvement; however, it sometimes feel like you come a bit unprepared to the meetings: with e.g., the sprint goal that needs to be defined as it was not defined prior to the meeting, following a discussion between the members of the teams regarding the next steps.
We sometimes have to intervene in order to re-focus the sprint goal on core features of the app.
Your team has shown improved autonomy in our last meeting, however, we still needed to help lead the meetings.


For this part, you received 2.7 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


The team is generally consistent in its delivery of value, though sprint 4 was less impactful than others.


For this part, you received 1.2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 3.67. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
