# Repository Structure

## How are we going organise our code?

This is how the repository is going to be organised.

**Note:** These are all the folders that will be used by use not those that are
generated by packages or our tools

```bash
├──  package-lock.json
├──  package.json
├──  Dockerfile
├──  README.md
├──  app.json
├──  tailwind.config.js
├──  .gitignore
├──  tsconfig.json
├──  babel.config.js
├──  expo-env.d.ts
├──  docs
│  ├──  testing.md
│  ├──  docker.md
│  ├──  commit.md
│  ├──  expo.md
│  └──  repo_struct.md
├──  app
│  ├──  +html.tsx
│  ├──  _layout.tsx
│  ├──  +not-found.tsx
│  ├──  (tabs)
│  │  ├──  explore.tsx
│  │  ├──  index.tsx
│  │  └──  _layout.tsx
│  ├──  (settings)
│  │  ├──  SomeSettings.tsx
│  │  ├──  Profile.tsx
│  │  └──  etc.tsx
│  ├──  (personal)
│  │  ├──  PersonalChallenges.tsx
│  │  └──  etc.tsx
│  └──  (auth)
│      ├──  Login.tsx
│      ├──  SignUp.tsx
│      ├──  ForgotPassword.tsx
│      └──  FirstTime.tsx
├──  components
│  ├──  ComponentX.tsx
│  ├──  ComponentY.tsx
│  ├──  ComponentEtc.tsx
│  └──  navigation
│     └──  TabBarIcon.tsx
├──  __tests__
│   └──  ThemedText-test.tsx
├──  assets
│  └──  images
│      ├──  logo.png
│      ├──  profileIcon.png
│      └──  settingsIcon.png
```

Let's go folder by folder.

### Docs

Here we will fill in the documentation for each tool we use aswell as each
screen that needs a more indepth understanding.

### App

These are the screens our project will have. Here we develop the tabs, settings, and other 
screen groups that would then be defined in the stack navigation


### Components

Here are the componentst that will be used all throughout the app, these can be 
custome buttons we create, challenge modules etc... 
The difference between a component and a screen is that screens are composed of 
components and one component isn't a screen on it's own. If it is then it's a screen.

### __tests__

Here all our tests will be stored. When running 
```bash 
npm test
```
All tests in this folder will run. Code coverage of our entire application on SonarCloud
depends on these tests being able to test all lines of code in our application

### assets

Here we will store files such as Icons and other miscellaneous objects

### Separate Files

####   package.json and package-lock.json

Package.json controls what packages we have installed in our project under the "dependencies" key.
What commands run what eg ```npm test``` actually runs ```jest --watchAll``` under the hood.

####  Dockerfile

This file builds a docker image which we can use to develop all uniformly under

####  tailwind.config.js

Tailwind will be our main tool to style our components and screens. All our centralised
styles will be in this file.

These will be written in the theme list

and affect all typescript files named in the content list 
in our case this is 

```javascript
  content: [
    "./App.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}",
    "./app/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}",
    "./components/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}",
  ],
```

plugins will be those that we will be adding to perhaps use tailwind components that are
ready made, etc... check out their components page [HERE](https://tailwindui.com/?ref=top).

####  .gitignore

All files that will not be pushed to the git repo. Notably we do not want to push
the node_modules that contain the actual code of our packages

####  tsconfig.json

Config file for typescript we can customize further but i doubt it will be needed

####  babel.config.js

A common linter to help us have uniform code. eg tab size, etc...

